{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SHEFFIELD VISUALLY IMPAIRED WALKING GROUP
\par AGM MINUTES 22 JUNE 2023
\par HELD AT ST VINCENT'S CHURCH HALL CROOKES
\par \pard 
\par CHAIR'S WELCOME:  \b0 Sue welcomed everyone to the meeting.
\par \b APOLOGIES: \b0 Linda Tait
\par \b MINUTES OF LAST MEETING \b0 were adopted as a true record
\par \b TREASURER'S REPORT:  \b0 the Treasurer's Report was distributed to members.  Stan particularly wanted to thank Sheffield City Trust for investing in our group and would like to thank David Cadet for his help in facilitating the relationship with SCT, and Uri Rennie who has been instrumental in delivering the grant.
\par \b CHAIR'S REPORT:  \b0 Sue thanked everyone for attending the AGM.  At last year's AGM we had just heard the news that we had been awarded the grant from Sheffield City Trust and am happy to announce that Uri Rennie is hoping to join us for part of tonight's celebrations.
\par It's been another busy year.  As usual, we have averaged a walk a week in and around Sheffield throughout the year whatever the weather.  We have also had two coach rambles, one to Masham in North Yorkshire in October, led by Mike Burgin, and recently to Hartington in the White Peak.  Although she is not here, I would like to say thank you to Julie Graham and her husband David for inviting us and going to the trouble organising the whole day, it's lovely that she keeps in touch.
\par We also had our annual holiday, our second visit to the Saxonville Hotel in Whitby.  The food was again superb, and the staff couldn't have been more helpful or friendly.  I think Phil the driver deserves a special mention.  He is much more than a coach driver, always eager to help, and this time he upped his game and went one better by bringing his lovely wife, who turned out to be an excellent guide.
\par On the subject of guides, we all know that our group would not exist without them.  It's amazing how they keep turning up to walk with us and how helpful and patient they are, some have been with us for many years, so I would like to say a big thank you to them, we do appreciate it.  Quite a few new guides have joined us this year, so I would like to welcome them officially and hope they will be with us for many years to come too.
\par Of course all these walks and holidays take a lot of organising, and I would also like to thank the committee members for all their hard work.  I don't want to list everyone individually, but I'm sure you would all like to thank Eileen for recruiting all the walk leaders and organising the dates of their walks, and Gail for doing such a fantastic job with the newsletter that lets everyone know when they are, and of course Martin for doing his utmost to make sure we have enough guides on every walk.
\par But tonight in particular there us one member of the committee who deserves a very special thank you.  For the past 13 years she has been a force to be reckoned with, organising lunches, AGM's and of course the annual holidays.  She has left no stone unturned trying to make sure everyone is happy with their holiday arrangements.  I don't know of anybody else that would have put so much effort into trying to please everyone.  After her recent health troubles she has reluctantly decided that 13 years is a reasonable length of service and it's time for a well deserved rest.  Margaret Patrick has bravely offered to take on the role, with Hilary's help.  For now can we all express our huge thanks to that very special lady who has worked so hard to make every event a great success.  Thank you Hilary.
\par On administrative matters, I'm sorry we've not had a guide training course this year.  The last one was facilitated by Annette from SRSB and was excellent, but unfortunately Annette has been off work for a while now and we are not sure when she will be back.  However, we are currently looking into holding another first aid course so will let you know more details as we have them. 
\par Also, we are also looking for someone to manage the website.  Christine Whitaker has done this job for 17 years so I'm sure she deserves a break.  If there is someone out there with the necessary technical knowledge and skills, please come forward, it would be good to have the job done by someone in the group.
\par Last but not least, I would like to thank all the VIP's.  Stubborn, funny, and full of Yorkshire grit, I think it's you who give our group it's real character together with our amazing good natured guides, long may it continue.
\par \b ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
\par \b0 The following officers were elected:
\par Sue Hill Chair
\par Martin Wing Vice Chair
\par Pauline Bullivant Secretary
\par Stan Wainwright Treasurer
\par Gail Fagan Newsletter
\par Eileen Ingham Walk Coordinator
\par Margaret Patrick Social Secretary, co-opted member
\par Christine Hewitt
\par Hilary Myers
\par Judith Morton - co-opted member
\par \b ANY OTHER BUSINESS
\par Smiley Faces\b0 :  these are on sale for \'a31, green for VIP's, orange for guides.
\par \b Holiday update:  \b0 28 are going on holiday 11 are VIP's.  Stan needs the money by the end of July.  Margaret Norwood has been in touch and she and her friends are to give us local information and a walks programme.  We are having the same driver and his wife this year.
\par \b Website:  \b0 Christine Whittaker willing to give some coaching to anyone wishing to take up the website responsibilities.
\par \b EMERGENCY SERVICES CARD:  \b0 see Margaret Patrick
\par \b LATHKILL DALE:\b0   Ann suggested we go to Lathkill Dale, the Committee will discuss.
\par \b SANDRA\b0  \b - thank you: \b0  when her friend died her life came to a standstill.  She moved to Sheffield and joined the SVIWG, she wanted to say thank you to you all for changing her life.
\par \b URI RENEE:  \b0 Thanked everyone for the invitation to join the AGM and said it was great to see you all and to continue to enjoy our walks.
\par \b TRIBUTE TO CHAIR - MARTIN:  \b0 On behalf of members Martin thanked Sue for being a really good Chair.
\par \b CLOSE OF MEETING:\b0   Once again Sue thanked everyone for coming to the meeting and presented flowers to Hilary and Christine to say thank you for all their hard work over many years.  Gifts were also given to the catering staff in appreciation of the lovely buffet meal.  
\par \f1 
\par }
