{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SHEFFIELD VISUALLY IMPAIRED WALKING GROUP
\par AGM MINUTES 26\super TH\nosupersub  JUNE 2024
\par HELD AT MAPPIN STREET
\par \pard\fs24 
\par \b0 
\par \b\fs28 CHAIRS WELCOME: \b0  Sue welcomed everyone to the meeting
\par \b APOLOGIES:  \b0 Stan, Margaret, Linda, Shaun, Marie, Katharine
\par \b MINUTES OF LAST AGM \b0 were adopted as a true record
\par \b TREASURER'S REPORT:  \b0 Stan prepared his report but unfortunately was not able to attend the meeting due to a hip operation.  Stan wanted to point out that in the accounts Holiday 2024 Suspense Account should be in brackets.  The report was distributed to the members at the AGM.
\par \b CHAIR'S REPORT:  \b0 Sue started by saying it was nice to see everyone and gave an especially warm welcome to a few people in particular.  Firstly, at our last AGM she mentioned that we were looking for someone to take over the management of our website and reported that she was pleased to announce that James Percival, who worked with Christine for several months to update the website, now maintains it, adding new walks and information every month.  He is doing this on an entirely voluntary basis, so I'm sure he deserves a big thank you from us all.
\par Sue also welcomed Judy Gathercole, who attended the AGM for the first time.  Obviously we all know her from the regular walks she leads for us.  Sue, on behalf of everyone thanked Judy for all her efforts.
\par Sue then went on to say that it was good to see people who are no longer able to walk with us but still feel part of the group, so she particularly wanted to welcome, Derek, Eric and Marcia, , and, last but not least, Mr Mike Jackson MBE.  For those who may not be aware, Mike was awarded the honour for services to the community, which include, amongst other activities, several years' service with Mountain Rescue.
\par Also, Sue reported that Uriah Rennie from Sheffield City Trust would be joining us later in the evening.
\par Sue reflected on our walking programme including a few special events such as the recent coach ramble to Flamborough and Bridlington, thanks to Matt for organising that.
\par We went to Anglesey on holiday, where we had excellent weather and some lovely walks organised by Margaret Norwood and her friends.
\par Thanks were given to other members of the committee for all their hard work and support throughout the year and all the walk leaders and guides for coming out so regularly and so willingly, sometimes at short notice, to walk with us and put up with us.  Sue went on to say that she finds it amazing that the guides still keep coming and still keep laughing with us.
\par All our guides are wonderful people and much appreciated and tonight I would like to spotlight one particular guide who won't be attending our next AGM.  Janet has been with the group for over 20 years.  She has always been 100% reliable and does far more than walk and guide.  She is proactive, asks people what more she can do to help and keeps an eye on the group as a whole.  She makes suggestions about how we can improve what we do.  It will be difficult to get used to the idea of Janet not being there, always ready to jump in and sort things out.  Janet is not only a first rate guide, but a very good friend to myself and I know to other members of the group as well.  We will all miss her.  Let's all wish her well in her new life down under.
\par \b ELECTION OF OFFICERS
\par \b0 Sue Hill Chair
\par Martin Wing Vice Chair / Membership Secretary
\par Stan Wainwright Treasurer
\par Pauline Bullivant Secretary
\par Gail Fagan Newsletter
\par Eileen Ingham Walks Co-ordinator
\par Margaret Patrick Social Secretary (Co-opted member)
\par Hilary Myers
\par Judith Morton (Co-opted member)
\par \b ANY OTHER BUSINESS
\par \pard\fi-360\li720\b0 1.\tab Mike Jackson (Fundraising) open garden 13\super th\nosupersub  July 2024
\par 2.\tab Response from Janet, Janet thanked everyone for their kind words, it has been lovely knowing you all and I will miss you. I will let you know when I get on a flight. 
\par \pard 
\par Sue thanked everyone for attending and hope they enjoyed the rest of the evening.   
\par \f1\fs32 
\par }
