{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER DECEMBER 2024/JANUARY 2025  \b0 
\par \b 
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par 
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.   \f1 
\par \pard 
\par \ul\b Please note there are no pet dogs allowed on our walks only Guide Dogs\ulnone\b0  
\par 
\par Please keep sending any photos to James Percival to keep our web site updated email address at the end of this newsletter.  
\par 
\par contents; Walks, Supporter news, Committee vacancies, Training videos.
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 3rd December\ulnone\b0 .  Christmas walk and lunch see previous newsletter.
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 11th December\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.30 to catch the 10.00 no 86 bus to The Angel PH Grenoside where walk starts 10.30. Circular walk  Route; Wheata Woods, Wharncliffe Woods and Grenoside woods, possible breaking off before going through Grenoside woods. Those finishing there can follow the path to Main Street Grenoside. Distance; 6 miles, Terrain; Good woodland paths, fields no stiles, Leader; Norman Pearson 07803437931 any walk enquiries.  
\par Free car parking in the Community Centre Grenoside.
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 6th December for him to make sure enough guides to assist VI's at the start of the walk\ulnone\b0  \ul\b 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.\ulnone\b0 com  
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 8th January\ulnone\b0  Linear walk.  Meet Poundland High Street 9.45 to start walking 10.15 to Cathedral Kelham Island, Burngreave Cemetery, and Wincobank, Meadowhall, Distance; 5.1/2 miles, Terrain; mixture of urban pavements and paths through park and woodland with some uphill sections. Paths may be muddy. Should anyone want to shorten the walk, the route crosses various bus routes.Leader; Mike Wilson 0753 8001933 any walk enquiries. 
\par 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin if joining this walk letting him know where you will meet the group to make sure enough guides at the start of the walk by Friday 3rd January 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.\ulnone\b0 com 
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 14th January\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.30 to catch the 9.55 no 81 bus to Dore Village where walk starts 10.30.  Route; walk around Dore and Totley, Distance; 5 miles, Terrain; Country tracks couple of stiles  mild ascents  wooded areas could be muddy at this time of year. finishing in time for lunch at Dore Cafe, Leader; David Cadet (07554143262 and Norman 07803437931 any walk enquiries)  
\par \ul\b As always please contact Martin if joining this walk by Friday 10th January letting him know where you intend to start the walk making sure we have enough guides for VI's at the start of the walk \ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par Please note there will be another newsletter containing the Thursday, Sunday and Tuesday walk in the newsletter in January.
\par 
\par SUPPORTER NEWS...
\par 
\par See the link below of Uriah Renee who donated to our group \'a316,000.00  in 4 year increments.  On behalf of the SVIWG very well deserved by him and congratulations from us all.
\par 
\par Sheffield Hallam University chancellor - BBC News 
\par 
\par https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cx2lql5ljpdo
\par 
\par COMMITTEE VACANCIES...
\par 
\par We have two vacancies on our committee one being as treasurer  the other a committee member.  Please contact \ul\b Sue Hill Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\ulnone\b0  
\par 
\par TRAINING VIDEOS...
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/ 
\par     
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proton.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk   
\par \pard\b0\f1 
\par }
