{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER JULY 2024 \b0 
\par \b 
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par 
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.   \f1 
\par \pard 
\par \ul\b Please note there are no pet dogs allowed on our walks only Guide Dogs\ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par CONTENTS;  Walks, member news, Garden visit, Training videos.
\par 
\par \b Please send all photos to James Percival email at the bottom of this newsletter with a description of where they were taken\b0 .
\par 
\par WALKS...
\par \ul\b 
\par Tuesday 2nd July\ulnone\b0 .  See previous newsletter for details.
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 10th July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.00 to catch 9.16 blue route tram to Hillsborough Interchange, then to catch the 9.55 no 61 bus to Bradfield bus turn around walk starts 10.25.  Route; Agden reservoir to cricket pitch at Bradfield for lunch, option to leave the walk, after to walk around Dam Flask, Distance; approx 6 miles, Terrain; mainly good paths with some tree routes, Leader; Norman Pearson ( 07803437931 any walk enquiries).
\par Round walk with parking available at the back of the cricket pitch nr children's playground.  
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin if joining this walk by Friday 5th July to make sure we have enough guides for this walk also where you will meet the group  07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com  
\par \ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b Thursday 25th July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Queen's Head Pond Hill 9.15 to travel by mini bus leaving 9.30 to Fairhomes.  Arrives 10am to start the walk.  Route; To be decided on the day due to weather conditions, Distance approx 7 to 8 miles, Terrain; Moderate walking some steep ascents and descents it is essential to wear good walking boots on this walk, Leader's; Peak Park Rangers (07502547221 any walk enquiries).
\par \ul\b Please let Martin know if joining this walk by Friday 19th July to make sure we have enough guides also where you are meeting so we know who will be at the start to meet VI's at the Queen's Head 
\par \ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b Sunday 28th July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.40 to catch the 10.05 tram at Sheffield Cathedral to Rotherham  Central Station where walk will start 10.30 from the station.  Route: We follow the Sheffield and Tinsley Canal from Rotherham to Sheffield Victoria Quays and into Sheffield City Centre. Distance: 7 miles. Terrain: good, mainly level paths. Leader: Steve and Chris (07960119903 any walk enquiries) 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin if joining this walk by Wednesday 24th July 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b 
\par Tuesday 6th August\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.50  to catch the 10.16 no 8 bus to Chaucer School Parson Cross where walk starts 10.40, Linear walk.  Route; Easy Walking on good paths through Tongue Gutter, Crossing Barnsley Rd, then taking the Trans-Pennine-Trail through open spaces through Shiregreen to Ecclesfield. Walk will finish In Ecclesfield and for those who want to there Is a nice chip shop that sells hot roast pork sandwiches and If you buy a sandwich, you get the chips for free, Distance; 4 miles, Terrain; Easy walking on good paths, There are no stiles or ascents, Leader's; David (07554143262 and Paul 07468776290 any walk enquiries).   
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin if joining this walk letting him know where you will be meeting to make sure enough guides at the start of the walk by Friday 26th July 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0  
\par 
\par GARDEN VISIT...
\par \ul\b Saturday 13th July\ulnone\b0 .  Members travelling by bus meet Poundland  High Street 13.10 to catch the 13.25 no 81 bus on Arundel Gate.  Please contact Sue to make sure  we have enough guides.  It would also be helpful if those travelling by car could also let Sue know for numbers.\b Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329 
\par \b0 
\par MEMBER NEWS...
\par 
\par Fiona and Keirian have the following items they wish to donate which was from Keirian's Grandmother;-
\par 
\par VictorReader Stratus, Daisy CD digital talking book e-reader including a few book cds (If registered as visually impaired can get sent more cds by RNIB on a regular basis); Talking clocks x2 (both small square clocks); Liquid level indicator for a mug; Various hand held magnifying glasses including 3 light up magnifiers; BBumperStops tactile dots; Couple of pairs of sunglasses (quite small size) 
\par If interested please contact Fiona on 07884030297   
\par 
\par \b . . . . \b0 
\par To all those who came on the Coach ramble thank you for singing on my birthday.  It was a lovely surprise and made my day...Sue
\par 
\par TRAINING VIDEOS...
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/ 
\par 
\par 
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proton.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk   
\par \pard\b0\f1 
\par }
