{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER FEBRUARY 2024 \b0 
\par \b 
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.                     \f1 
\par \pard 
\par \b CONTENTS;... Walks, Welcome our new web site manager, Sighted guide training, Training videos\b0 .
\par 
\par WALKS...
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 6th February \ulnone\b0   Please see previous newsletter for details
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 14th February\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.30 to catch the 9.56 no 43 Chesterfield bus from Arundel Gate stand AG12 (opposite British Heart Foundation) to the Horse and Jockey pub at Unstone where the walk will start 10.42.  Route; Walking towards Sheepsbridge, turning through woods and crossing A61 footbridge heading for Cowley, turning left and heading towards Barlow, we then follow a different route back to the footbridge and return to Unstone, Distance; 7 miles, Terrain; The footpaths are mostly walker friendly with small number of stiles and moderate climbs and flat sections, Leader; Joe Fagan who will join the group at Unstone (07791634319 any walk enquiries)  
\par Car drivers there is parking on side roads nearby. 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 9th February to make sure we   have enough guides for this walk 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com  \ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par \ul\b Thursday 22nd February\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Sheffield railway station 8.40 to catch the 9.14 local Hope valley train to Chinley where walk starts 10.00.  Circular walk.  Route; Chinley station  via Chinley village, old Peak Forest tramway, Laneside, Lidgate, Eccles Pike, Hilltop, Buxworth, old Peak Forest tramway back to Chinley. Distance; approx 6 miles. Terrain; Lanes and good tracks, some muddy paths, wicket gates, stiles, steady climb up to and over Eccles Pike, Leader; Steve Brown (07801 906126 any walk enquiries).  Trains back to Sheffield 15.22 and 16.22.  Car parking near Chinley Station. 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 16th February to make sure we have enough guides telling him where you intend to start the walk 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com  
\par \ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b Sunday 25th February\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.30 to catch the blue route tram10.00  to Malin Bridge Terminus where walk starts 10.16  Route; Loxley valley, Loxley Chase & Wadsley Common finishing Middlewood terminus, Distance; 6.1/2 miles, Terrain; Good footpaths two moderately steep hills & three stiles on the route. Leader; Sam Butler (07867 381581 any walk enquiries).
\par  People using their own transport can park free at the "park & ride" car park Malin Bridge & catch a tram back from Middlewood at the end of the walk.  
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin if joining this walk letting him know where you will meet the group to make sure we have enough guides at the start of the walk by Wednesday 21st February\ulnone\b0  \ul\b 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com  
\par \ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 5th March\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.30 to catch the 9.54 no 24 bus to Charles Ashmore Road Meadowhead where walk starts  10.30. Circular walk.  Route; Graves Park to St Martins Church, Oaks Park, Herdings Park, returning back through Rollestone and Hang Bank woods. Distance; 5 miles, Terrain; Easy walking no stiles or steep ascents may be muddy in wooded areas. Leader's; David (07554143262) and Paul (07468776290 any walk enquiries)  
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 1st March making sure we have enough guides at the start of the walk\ulnone\b0  \ul\b 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com  \ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par NEW WEB SITE MANAGER...
\par 
\par A warm welcome to James Percival who has volunteered to take over our web site from Chris Whittakker.  Chris set up the web site some 15 years ago and has kept it running for us for all this time.  We are very grateful to you Chris now you can relax and still enjoy coming out walking with us.
\par 
\par James came through VAS Voluntary Action Sheffield and has been working on our web site for some time now re- shaping and designing it.  Take a look on www.sviwg.co.uk.
\par 
\par You can now send any photos to James email address sviwg_webmaster@proten.me 
\par 
\par SIGHTED GUIDE TRAINING...
\par We are holding a training session date not known yet  for any new guides wishing to come along.  This is also open to any guides who have received training in the past but would like a refresher.  This is a great opportunity as Alison Anthony who works as a Re-hab officer at Howden House who is extremely qualified to give this training.  Please put your name down with Sue it would be good to see our new guides there.
\par \b susanmaryhill56@icloud.com    
\par \b0 
\par TRAINING VIDEOS...
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/ 
\par     
\par 
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proten.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk  
\par \b0    
\par \pard\f1 
\par }
