{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER JULY 2025 
\par  
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par 
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.\f1 
\par \pard 
\par \ul\b Please note there are no pet dogs allowed on our walks only Guide Dogs\ulnone\b0    
\par 
\par CONTENTS; Walks, Committee Vacancy, Garden Party, Obituary, Training Videos, Contact details and where to send any photos.
\par 
\par \ul WALKS\ulnone  
\par 
\par Any walk enquiries please contact the walk leader for their particular walk.
\par \ul\b 
\par Tuesday 1st July \ulnone\b0  see previous newsletter for details\ul\b .\ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 9th July\ulnone\b0 .  The Coach ramble to Newstead Abbey will leave the Penny Black Pond Hill 9.30 to 9.45.  We have a full coach with a waiting list.  If your name is down please let Hilary or Eileen know if you no longer wish to come along..
\par hilarymyers16@gmail.com  tel; 0114 2306604. 
\par 
\par \ul\b Thursday 24th July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet at the Queen's Head Pond Hill 9.15 to travel by mini bus leaving 9.30 to Fairhomes where walk starts 10am.  Route; always to be decided on the day due to weather conditions, Distance; around 8 miles, Terrain; Some climbs uneven paths moorland and wooded areas, always recommended to wear walking boots on this walk. Leader's; Peak park rangers 07502547221 for all walk enquiries 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 18th July making sure we have enough guides to cover also letting him know where you will meet the group
\par \ulnone\b0 
\par \ul\b Sunday 27th July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 10am to catch the no 86 bus at 10.25am on Angel Street to the Crown and Cushion  on Burncross Road Chapletown where walk starts 11am.  Route; We will go through a small wood and fields onto the A61 briefly then through a small wood and more fields towards Whitley.  Making our way to behind Ecclesfield church before heading back up the farmers field and past his pea crops and free samples!  Reaching the Horbury path leading to the Crown and Cushion. Distance; around 5 miles, Terrain; A little bit overgrown in some parts by the lush undisturbed flora and fauna!  There are about 6 reasonably easy small stiles. Leader; Ann Batty 07989053534 for any walk enquiries.
\par \ul\b As always please contact Martin by Wednesday 23rd July for him to make sure enough guides to assist VI's at the start of the walk\ulnone\b0 .
\par  
\par \ul\b Tuesday 5th August\ulnone\b0 . Meet Poundland High Street 9.20 to catch the 9.40 tram to Hillsborough Interchange  then the 10.10 no 62 bus to Dungworth walk starts 10.35.  Linear walk finishing at the Admiral Rodney on Loxley Road. Route; Dungworth, Storrs and Loxley Valley. Distance; 4 miles, Terrain; Easy walking through fields and tracks around Dungworth, Leader; David Cadet 07554143262 davidcadet81@gmail.com  for all walk enquiries.
\par \ul\b Please always contact Martin by Friday 1st August for him to make sure enough guides to meet group at the start\ulnone\b0 . 
\par  
\par Walks in Rotherham.  The first Thursday each month a mini bus leaves SRSB Mappin Street 9.30am to travel to RSS Rotherham leaving 10am to join Ramblers who will lead a walk around the Winthrop area Rotherham.  This is usually a 3 mile walk finishing with lunch at the beautiful Winthrop Gardens.  If interested please call SRSB 0114 2722757.
\par \ul 
\par COMMITTEE VACANCY\ulnone . 
\par We still have a vacancy for a Minutes Secretary for our group if interested please let our committee know.
\par \ul 
\par GARDEN PARTY\ulnone .
\par 
\par A great success!.Those of you who unfortunately couldn't make it missed a treat.  The weather was kind, the garden was looking spectacular, and the atmosphere was very  lively and upbeat.
\par So thanks to Mike for being such a generous and enthusiastic host, He certainly kept us on our toes with the organisation.  Thanks also to the members of the Abbeydale Rotary club for their generous support with advance publicity, practicalities and  administration. Thank you to Mike's family and friends who helped on the day and to Nicola for her supreme efficiency in the kitchen, I've never seen anyone produce so many glasses of pimms so fast, with tea and coffee on the boil at the same time. Also thanks to everyone who contributed to the refreshments, I heard lots of  appreciative compliments about the cakes.
\par Finally, thank you to everyone who attended and made the afternoon such a convivial gathering,it was a really feel-good event.   Sue..
\par We made a profit of just over \'a3500, a fantastic result. 
\par    
\par \ul OBITUARY\ulnone   
\par 
\par We are deeply sad to hear of the news of our friend and supporter Uriah Renee who died on the 8th June.  Uriah suffered a rare neurological condition which left him paralysed from the waist down.  His CV was outstanding living a very good life helping others and he had so much more to offer.  Our thoughts to his family and his friends in our group David Cadet who had known Uriah when he was 15 years old and played in the football team that David was refereeing at the  time and also Darrel Lomas who  was his friend.  He certainly left a mark on society and also our group it was a privilege to have known him. 
\par 
\par \ul TRAINING VIDEOS\ulnone .
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/  
\par 
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proton.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk   
\par \pard\b0\f1 
\par }
