{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER JUNE 2024 \b0 
\par \b 
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par 
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.  \f1 
\par \pard 
\par Contents; Walks including Coach Ramble, AGM notice, Guardian link, update on sighted guide training, Member news, Training videos.
\par \ul\b 
\par No pet dogs are allowed on all our walks only Guide Dogs\ulnone\b0 .
\par 
\par WALKS...\ul\b 
\par Tuesday 4th June \ulnone\b0   See previous newsletter for details.
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 12th June\ulnone\b0 .  Coach Ramble to Flamborough.   Meeting at the Penny Black PH Pond Hill 8.45 coach leaving 9am. Time departing Bridlington 6pm.  Route; Parking at Flamborough Head Lighthouse taking the coastal path to Bridlington. After two and a half miles you go down 70 steps with handrails towards the flamborough lifeboat station (south landing) where we could stop for a coffee.  Another mile you come across a 2nd world war bunker with nice views towards Danes dyke. Sewerby cricket ground and Sewerby hall, Limekiln Lane coach park. Distance; 5to 6 miles, Terrain; Coastal paths with some steps woodland areas. Leader; Matt Gulty (07738005412 any walk enquiries).
\par \ul\b Please contact Eileen if going on this trip.  cost \'a310 payable in advance of booking \ulnone\f0 07952241775; 01142814414  
\par \b0\f1 
\par \ul\b Thursday 20th June\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.15 to catch the 9.30 no 51 bus Church Street (opposite Cathedral) to Lodge Moor Terminus walk starting 10.15.  Route; paths to and along South side Redmires reservoirs, short climb up past disused quarries then down hill on Brown Edge, level path to source of Rivelin Brook, take path along route of conduit then Lane and paths on North side of Reservoirs then back to bus terminus, Distance; approx 8 miles, Terrain; Lanes and mix of various paths with reasonable surfaces. Some uneven sections of grassy rutted paths, one stile, one steady short climb and descent. Leader; David Guile (07553944116 any walk enquiries) 
\par 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 14th June for him to make sure enough guides also to meet group at the start of the walk 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0   
\par 
\par \ul\b Sunday 23rd June\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Sheffield interchange (main foyer) 9.30 to catch the 9.51 no 272 bus to Fox House where walk starts 10.25.  Route; Linear walk, Toad's Mouth, Winyards Nick, Callow (break  off point to Hathersage), Carrhead Rocks, Cattiside Moor, North Lees, Hathersage. Distance; 6 miles, Terrain; some ups downs roads paths and  mixed terrain, Leader; Mike Burgin who will join the group Fox House (07879228600 any walk enquiries).
\par Return bus 15.45. 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Wednesday 19th June if joining this walk 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0  
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 2nd July\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Interchange (main foyer) 9.10 to catch the 9.35 no 65 bus to Calver Crossroads Circular walk starts 10.15.  Route; Easy walking on good paths around Calver and the river Derwent. Distance; 4 miles. Terrain; No stiles easy walking. Leader's; David and Paul, \f0 (07554143262 for David; 07468776290 for Paul any walk enquiries). 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin by Friday 29th June if joining this walk letting him know where you will be meeting the group to make sure enough guides at the start of the walk\f1  07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com \ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par AGM...
\par \ul\b Wednesday 26th June\ulnone\b0 ..To be held at SRSB Mappin Street 6pm  Cost \'a37 payable on the door (please make sure you have the correct change).
\par 
\par \b . . . .
\par \b0\f2 
\par Committee; 
\par Sue Hill Chair; Martin Wing Vice Chair; Pauline Bullivant Secretary; Stan Wainwright Treasurer; Gail Fagan Newsletter; Eileen Ingham Walk Coordinator; Margaret Patrick Social Secretary, co-opted member; Christine Hewitt; Hilary Myers; Judith Morton - co-opted member 
\par \f1 
\par Election of Officers, all members are willing to stand again with the exception of Chris Hewitt who has stepped down from the Committee.  Chris has been a long standing member of the group and an excellent Chair, also Membership secretary.  On behalf of the group we Thank You Chris for your hard work and look forward to meeting on social occasions and walks.
\par Anyone in the group who would like to take on any role or indeed join the Committee please let Sue know or anyone on the Committee.  
\par 
\par HOW TO DESCRIBE A CANAL TOW PATH TO SOMEONE WHO CANNOT SEE...
\par writes Adrian Childs in the Guardian as he lead his friend on a walk.
\par https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2024/may/01/how-do-you-describe-the-view-to-someone-who-cant-see-i-couldnt-even-do-justice-to-a-canal-towpath  
\par 
\par SIGHTED GUIDE TRAINING...
\par 
\par We have now set a date of Thursday 3rd October 2024, 10am to approx 1pm this allows for members who have put their names down for any holidays they may have.  Sue will be contacting all to confirm they can still come to the meeting.  I hope this date suits most of you.  With thanks Gail 
\par 
\par MEMBER NEWS...
\par 
\par Nigel would like to thank all your good wishes during this stressful time of leaving his home at Nether Edge for several years.  Nigel has moved to a flat at Gleadless Townend, near to amenities and public transport.  We wish him lots of happy years there and look forward to seeing him on walks and social occasions when he has sorted himself out. 
\par 
\par TRAINING VIDEOS...
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/ 
\par     
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proton.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk   
\par \pard\b0\f1 
\par }
