{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\cf1\lang2057\b\f0\fs32 SVIWG NEWSLETTER MAY 2025 
\par  
\par www.sviwg.co.uk\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par CHAIR; Sue Hill; \f1 Susanmaryhill56@icloud.com mobile;07970311329\b0  
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0  \b 
\par Walk coordinator; EILEEN INGHAM; 07952241775; 01142814414\b0   
\par \pard\f1 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\f0 From time to time we take photos to update our web site and also SRSB's web site.  If anyone does not wish to appear on group photos please make it clear at the beginning of the walk.  
\par 
\par Whilst every effort is taken by walk leaders members attending do so at their own risk.  All members are required to wear good walking boots and bring their own rucksack food and drink as well as waterproofs.\f1 
\par \pard 
\par \ul\b Please note there are no pet dogs allowed on our walks only Guide Dogs\ulnone\b0  
\par \ul 
\par \ulnone CONTENTS; Important notice/walks, Garden Party, AGM, Training videos, web site address, newsletter contact for imput. 
\par 
\par \ul IMPORTANT NOTICE/WALKS.\ulnone  
\par \ul 
\par \ulnone Sometimes we have to turn down VI's if there are not enough guides for that particular walk.  This is never personal we are working hard to recruit new guides so our VI's are never turned down for a walk.  Judith has set up a Face Book page for our group to send her any photos videos etc hopefully to recruit new guides.  Contact details are judemorton56@gmail.com 
\par  or mobile 07896596413.  Also not forgetting our web site managed by James Percival details always in our newsletter.  Also it is most important to contact Martin by the date specified in the newsletter for that particular walk.  This gives Martin time to try to find more guides to come along sometimes forgetting to put their names down.  Ideally we would like to have 2 guides for each VI but this is not possible so we always have 2 to 3 spare guides to give other guides who find themselves guiding most of the day a rest.  Thank you for your cooperation.   Gail  
\par 
\par Any queries about any of our walks please only ask the walk leader for that particular walk as they are the only ones to answer your questions.  
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 6th May\ulnone\b0 .  See previous newsletter for details
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 14th May\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.40 to catch the 10.11 no 24 bus on Arundel Gate to the top of Abbey Lane The Abbey PH where walk starts 10.40.  Route; Chancet and Parkbank woods  to Beauchief  Abbey  then Ladies spring woods to Ecclesall woods which we can explore for as long or as short as we like perhaps including a stop at the cafe.  Distance; approx 5 miles. Terrain; Woodland paths. Leader; Judy Gathercole 07557272559 for any walk enquiries.
\par \ul\b If coming on this walk it is important to let Martin know so he knows for sure if he has enough guides for VI's by Friday 9th May 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0   
\par 
\par \ul\b Thursday 22nd May\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Queen's Head pub Pond Hill 9.15 to travel by mini bus leaving 9.30 to Fairhomes walk starts 10.00.  Route; To be decided on the day due to weather conditions. Distance; around 8 miles. Terrain; Moderate walking some climbs, rough ground some good paths finishing downhill or flat surfaces. Leader's; Peak Park Rangers 07502547221 for any walk enquiries.
\par Walking boots on this walk not trainers please.
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin letting him know where you will meet group for him to make sure we have enough guides at the start of the walk by Friday 16th May\ulnone\b0 .
\par 
\par \ul\b Sunday 25th May\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 10am to catch the no 88 bus at 10.18 on Arundel Gate CS123 to 88 Bus Terminus outside Kringle Bakery on Ringinglow Road (Bents Green). Walk starts at 10.40.  Route; walk a short distance along Ringinglow Road to go down Trap Lane to the Porter Valley. We continue along the valley to turn up to Ringinglow where we cross the road and descend into the Limb Valley, following the path down to Hathersage Road to catch the bus to Sheffield. Distance; 5 miles. Terrain; Descent paths. Leader's; Steve and Chris 07507485822 for all walk enquiries. 
\par \ul\b Please contact Martin no later than Wednesday 21st May so he knows he has enough guides, also where you will be starting the walk\ulnone\b0 
\par 
\par \ul\b Tuesday 3rd June\ulnone\b0 .  Meet Poundland High Street 9.40 to catch the no 1 10.01 bus on Arundel Gate to Ecclesfield Park opposite Morrisons where walk starts 10.35, Circular walk.  Route; Tracks around Ecclesfield. Distance; 5 miles. Terrain; Easy walking through tracks and fields. Leader; David Cadet 07554143262 davidcadet81@gmail.com 
\par  for any walk enquiries. 
\par \ul\b As always please let Martin know no later than Friday 30th May if joining this walk so he knows if he has enough guides for VI's also where you will be meeting the group 07747443812 mrmartinwing@gmail.com\ulnone\b0   
\par 
\par \ul GARDEN PARTY
\par \ulnone 
\par \ul\b Saturday 31st May\ulnone\b0   2-5pm. To celebrate 25 years of our walking group at 9 Newfield Crescent, Dore, S17 3DE
\par Everyone is welcome, no need to book, arrive any time between 2 and 5 pm. For VIPs travelling alone, the SRSB minibus will leave from the Penny Black, Pond Hill at 2 pm. Places must be reserved.  Please contact Andy Abbey, who will be the driver, to reserve your place.  Email:a.f.abbey61@gmail.com Or TEXT ONLY (No voice calls please) on +44 7587082473.  For those using  public transport the 81 DORE bus leaves Arundel gate at 22 and 52 minutes past  the hour, alight at Heather Leigh Road but please check times nearer the day.
\par Anyone willing to help for a short time on the day with making tea, pouring drinks etc, also, anyone who hasn't already offered but would like to bake a cake please let Sue know. Thank you.  tel. 07970311329.  susanmaryhill56@icloud.com
\par 
\par \ul AGM\ulnone .
\par 
\par \ul\b Wednesday 25th June\ulnone\b0 .  6 for 6.30pm Mappin Street.  Our AGM 6.30 followed at 7pm by a special celebration or social evening with buffet.  It would be wonderful if some of the guides and VI's who no longer walk with us would come.  We would love to see you and chat about the early years and all the laughs we had.  Please let me know if you would like to attend.  email; hilarymyers16@gmail.com  phone; 0114 2306604  
\par 
\par So how to guide a blind person
\par 
\par https://youtu.be/-jqepQ8yASM 
\par https://www.guidedogs.org.uk/getting-support/information-and-advice/sighted-guiding-instructional-videos/ 
\par     
\par \b\f0 Please send any photos to James Percival email to;-   \b0\f1 sviwg_webmaster@proton.me 
\par \pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0  who will put them on our web site\b0  
\par \b 
\par Please send articles for Newsletter to Gail Fagan 0114 2667764 email gail.fagan@guidemail.co.uk   
\par \pard\b0\f1 
\par }
